DOCS 966: Document the `merged` model of movement sensor (#1614)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/movement-sensor/merged.md

---
title: "Configure an merged movement sensor"
linkTitle: "merged"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an merged movement sensor."
images: ["/icons/components/imu.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand
---

> The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple types of [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.
```

> The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#get-readings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.
```

> This lets you aggregate [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#get-readings) from multiple sensors into a singular sensor instance, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.

Author: ```suggestion
This lets you aggregate [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings) from multiple sensors into a singular sensor instance, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.
```

> In other words, when you call [`GetReadings()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings) on a `merged` sensor, the `Readings` each sensors has taken are combined in one response from your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
In other words, the models of the `merged` sensors are combined, making the API methods each aggregated model supports supported by and available to use on the `merged` model.
```

> In other words, when you call [`GetReadings()`](/components/movement-sensor/#get-readings) on a `merged` sensor, the `Readings` each sensors has taken are combined in one response from your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
In other words, when you call [`GetReadings()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings) on a `merged` sensor, the `Readings` each sensors has taken are combined in one response from your robot.
```

> In other words, when you call [`GetReadings()`](/components/movement-sensor/#get-readings) on a `merged` sensor, the `Readings` each sensors has taken are combined in one response from `viam-server`.

Author: ```suggestion
In other words, when you call [`GetReadings()`](/components/movement-sensor/#get-readings) on a `merged` sensor, the `Readings` each sensors has taken are combined in one response from your robot.
```

> This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/gps/) or [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/gps/)) models, respectively.

Author: ```suggestion
This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) or [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/#configuration)) models, respectively.
```

> This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/gps/) or [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/gps/)) models, respectively.

Author: I think I've rewritten the parts you were concerned about, let me know if you catch anything still iffy in this section that I'm missing !

{{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

> Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/gps) and [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/imu)) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.

Author: ```suggestion
Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration and [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/#configuration)) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.
```

> Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/gps) and [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/imu)) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.

Author: Gotcha

> Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/gps/) and [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/gps/)) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.

Author: ```suggestion
Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/gps) and [`IMU`]((/components/movement-sensor/imu)) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.
```

Reference the `name` you configure for each individual component in the `merged` sensor's configuration attributes as shown:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.
Enter a name for your movement sensor, select the `movement-sensor` type, and select the `merged` model.

Click **Create Component**.

{{< imgproc src="/components/movement-sensor/merged-config-builder.png" alt="Creation of an `merged` movement sensor in the Viam app config builder." resize="600x" >}}

Edit and fill in the attributes as applicable.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "<your-sensor-name>",
      "type": "movement_sensor",
      "model": "merged",
      "attributes": {
        "position": ["<your-gps-sensor-name-1>", "<your-gps-sensor-name-2>"],
        "orientation" : ["<your-imu-sensor-name-1>"],
        "compass_heading" : ["<your-gps-sensor-name-1>"],

>         "angular_velocity":["<your-angular-velocity-sensor-name-2>"],

Author: changed to imu!

>         "angular_velocity":["<your-angular-velocity-sensor-name-2>"],

Author: ```suggestion
        "angular_velocity":["<your-imu-sensor-name-1>"],
```

        "linear_velocity": ["<your-gps-sensor-name-1>"],

>         "linear_acceleration": ["<your-adxl345-sensor-name-1>"]

Author: cool done!

>         "linear_acceleration": ["<your-adxl345-sensor-name-1>"]

Author: ```suggestion
        "linear_acceleration": ["<your-accelerometer-sensor-name-1>"]
```

      },
    "depends_on": [] 
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// { "components": [ { ... },
{
    "name": "<your-sensor-name>",
    "type": "movement_sensor",
    "model": "merged",
    "attributes": {
        "position": ["gps1"],
        "orientation" : ["vectornav"],
        "compass_heading" : ["gps1"],

>         "angular_velocity":[""],

Author: Added vectornav, lmk if you want both in array to demonstrate

>         "angular_velocity":[""],

Reviewer: good idea, and you can use that to demonstrate which one we'll pick (the first one since both report angular velocity and do not error since the driver and config is healthy)

>         "angular_velocity":[""],

Author: Oh smart, I'll add this to the end note as well

>         "angular_velocity":[""],

Author: added!

>         "angular_velocity":[""],

Author: ```suggestion
        "angular_velocity":["vectornav"],
```

      "depends_on":[]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Attributes

Configure an array of the `name` of each movement sensor you want to add to your robot as a merged resource in the attributes of the `merged` movement sensor model:

- The name of each attribute represents the `Property` that that particular movement sensor supports, or the type of reading or measurement that it takes.
- Get the properties supported by each model from its [model configuration documentation](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration), or by calling [`GetProperties()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getproperties) on the sensor.

> - Use this information to determine which attribute to put its `name` inside the array of.

Reviewer 2: Realizing this sentence is awk. Maybe:
```suggestion
- Put the `name` of each movement sensor into the attribute array for the type of reading it supports.
```

- The name of each attribute represents the `Property` that that particular movement sensor supports, or the type of reading or measurement that it takes.

> - Retrieve this information for your movement sensor by calling [`GetProperties()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getproperties) on the sensor.

Author: ```suggestion
- Retrieve this information for your movement sensor from its [model configuration documentation](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) or by calling [`GetProperties()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getproperties) on the sensor.
```

Realized ppl really shouldn't need to be calling `GetProperties` a lot of the time, we'll just add the properties info to the model's docs right-- maybe this usage info would be more useful with module registry... lmk what you think about changing this part or not! @randhid

Reviewer: give the user an either or option. Also mention that we allow you to use the same sensor for multipleattirbutes if it supports multiple properties.

Author: Ok, cool! Thank you for the suggestion!

> - Retrieve this information for your movement sensor by calling [`GetProperties()`](/components/movement-sensor/#get-properties) on the sensor.

Author: ```suggestion
- Retrieve this information for your movement sensor by calling [`GetProperties()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getproperties) on the sensor.
```

> - Use this information to determine which attribute to put its `name` inside the array of.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use this information to determine which attribute to put its `name` inside the array of.
You can use the same sensor for multiple attributes if it supports multiple properties.
```

Name | Type | Inclusion | Description
---- | ---- | --------- | -----------
`position` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads position. |
`orientation` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads orientation. |
`compass_heading` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads compass heading position. |
`linear_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear velocity. |
`angular_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads angular velocity. |
`linear_acceleration` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear acceleration |

> Note that `Readings` are only taken and merged from the first sensor in the respective attribute's array that does not produce an error at runtime.

Reviewer: remove.

Author: Q: -- I added this bc I saw this comment in scope doc and originally assumed an array of sensors would mean that each sensor's resource mentioned in the array was being merged into one sensor reading like in the sensors service. 

However, I was confused about the technical function of merging--> (aggregating in one resource api vs bringing the methods), and it seems more obvious that you would not be configuring multiple sensors in here for that purpose. I do think users could still be confused like I was though. Do you think that this suggestion would be ok to leave in here as opposed to removing the note?

Author: (I think you already answered this question: see comment thread below)

> Note that `Readings` are only taken and merged from the first sensor in the respective attribute's array that does not produce an error at runtime.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that readings are only available from the first sensor in the respective attribute's array that does not produce an error at runtime.
```

Author: Ahh I just saw your main review comment notes on here!! I think you answered this already so if you are re-reviewing and see this, sorry, premature lol

Author: Ok-- I rephrased hopefully more accurate, comment still stands as far as keeping note in I guess!

---
title: "Configure an merged movement sensor"
linkTitle: "merged"
weight: 40
type: "docs"

> description: "Configure an merged movement sensor."

Author: Haha ty

images: ["/icons/components/imu.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand
---

> The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple types of [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.

Author: Ok cool, I agree the link is less useful and might make more confusing re rand's comment too. This is good

> The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple types of [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.

Author: Thanks!

> This lets you aggregate [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings) from multiple sensors into a singular sensor instance, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.

Author: ```suggestion
This allows you to aggregate the API methods supported by multiple sensors into a singular sensor client, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.
```

In other words, the models of the `merged` sensors are combined, making the movement sensor API methods each aggregated model supports available on the `merged` model.

This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) or [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) models, respectively.

> {{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

Author: I think rand wants it a tip (see comment thread below) so not addressing

> {{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

Author: It is weird here but this is quite possibly necessary for usage rn from what I understand?

> {{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

Reviewer 2: I see. What if this lives in the navigation service docs, not here? Would that work?

If this stays here, I'm still not sure about creating a specialized title for this tip instead of using "Tip" as the title for consistency across the docs.

Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.

> {{% /alert %}}

Author: Not addressing as conflicting

- Use this information to determine which attribute to put its `name` inside the array of.
You can use the same sensor for multiple attributes if it supports multiple properties.

Name | Type | Inclusion | Description
---- | ---- | --------- | -----------
`position` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads position. |
`orientation` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads orientation. |
`compass_heading` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads compass heading position. |
`linear_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear velocity. |
`angular_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads angular velocity. |
`linear_acceleration` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear acceleration |

> Note that `Readings` are only taken and merged from the first sensor in the respective attribute's array that does not produce an error at runtime.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that only one sensor from each array can be used to retrieve each type of reading.
The first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model server and does not raise an error at runtime is used by your robot to get that type of reading.
```

linkTitle: "merged"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an merged movement sensor."
images: ["/icons/components/imu.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand
---

The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple types of [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.

This allows you to aggregate the API methods supported by multiple sensors into a singular sensor client, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.

In other words, the models of the `merged` sensors are combined, making the movement sensor API methods each aggregated model supports available on the `merged` model.

This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) or [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) models, respectively.

{{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

> Aggregating the readings of a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/) with these position and orientation readings.

Author: ```suggestion
Aggregating `Position()` from a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and `Orientation()` from an [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/).
```

Edit and fill in the attributes as applicable.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "<your-sensor-name>",
      "type": "movement_sensor",
      "model": "merged",
      "attributes": {
        "position": ["<your-gps-sensor-name-1>", "<your-gps-sensor-name-2>"],
        "orientation" : ["<your-imu-sensor-name-1>"],
        "compass_heading" : ["<your-gps-sensor-name-1>"],
        "angular_velocity":["<your-imu-sensor-name-1>"],
        "linear_velocity": ["<your-gps-sensor-name-1>"],
        "linear_acceleration": ["<your-accelerometer-sensor-name-1>"]
      },
    "depends_on": [] 
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// { "components": [ { ... },
{
    "name": "<your-sensor-name>",
    "type": "movement_sensor",
    "model": "merged",
    "attributes": {
        "position": ["gps1"],
        "orientation" : ["vectornav"],
        "compass_heading" : ["gps1"],

>         "angular_velocity":["vectornav"],

Author: ```suggestion
        "angular_velocity":["vectornav", ["mpu6050"],
```

You can use the same sensor for multiple attributes if it supports multiple properties.

Name | Type | Inclusion | Description
---- | ---- | --------- | -----------
`position` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads position. |
`orientation` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads orientation. |
`compass_heading` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads compass heading position. |
`linear_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear velocity. |
`angular_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads angular velocity. |
`linear_acceleration` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear acceleration |

Note that only one sensor from each array can be used to retrieve each type of reading.

> The first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model and does not raise an error at runtime is used by your robot to get that type of reading.

Author: ```suggestion
The first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model and does not raise an error at runtime is used by your robot to get that type of reading.
For instance, in the **JSON Example** above, if both `"vectornav"` and `"mpu6050"` support returning `angular_velocity`, `"mpu6050"` is only used to read linear acceleration on the robot if `"vectornav"` returns an error at runtime.
```

> The first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model server and does not raise an error at runtime is used by your robot to get that type of reading.

Author: ```suggestion
The first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model and does not raise an error at runtime is used by your robot to get that type of reading.
```

---
title: "Configure an merged movement sensor"
linkTitle: "merged"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an merged movement sensor."
images: ["/icons/components/imu.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand
---

> The `merged` movement sensor model supports a movement sensor that allows you to get multiple types of [`Readings`](/components/movement-sensor/#getreadings), including angular and linear velocity, from *one* movement sensor {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resource" >}} on your robot.

Author: cool I think done w/ jessamy suggestion

> 
> This allows you to aggregate the API methods supported by multiple sensors into a singular sensor client, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to aggregate the API methods supported by multiple sensors into a singular sensor client.
```

Reviewer 2: I still think these two sentences belong in a single paragraph

> 
> In other words, the models of the `merged` sensors are combined, making the movement sensor API methods each aggregated model supports available on the `merged` model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I don't think this helps, because this is already stated, plus it doesn't make it any more clear that they actually do still need to configure the other components first.

Author: I do think it helps bc of the model server distinction, but I agree this could be shortened

Author: I mean that I want people to be aware that the model is serving through API

Reviewer 2: I think the first two sentences already cover it though

This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) or [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) models, respectively.

{{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

> Aggregating `Position()` from a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and `Orientation()` from an [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/).

Author: ```suggestion
Aggregating `Position()` from a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and `Orientation()` from an [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/).

Configure a [navigation service](/services/navigation/) to use your merged sensor to navigate.
```

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: ie go to a poisition and orientation

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: or well... position right now, orientation is being added to location in the nav API. getting a bit ahead of myself here. Either way I believe nav needs a sensor of some sort. And that sensor is dealing with position and orientation readings, not velocities. The velocities part of the scope this comes from  is for the control loop part for planning trajectories, they're separate projects.

> {{% /alert %}}

Author: Ok cool-- I think addressed w tip pointing to nav service configure

Before configuring a `merged` movement sensor, configure each movement sensor you want to merge as an individual component according to its [model's configuration instructions](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration).

> Reference the `name` you configure for each individual component in the `merged` sensor's configuration attributes as shown:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reference the `name` you configure for each individual component in the `merged` sensor's configuration attributes:
```

Author: done

    "type": "movement_sensor",
    "model": "merged",
    "attributes": {
        "position": ["gps1"],
        "orientation" : ["vectornav"],
        "compass_heading" : ["gps1"],
        "angular_velocity":["vectornav", "mpu6050"],
        "linear_velocity": ["gps1"],
        "linear_acceleration": ["adxl345"]
    }, 
      "depends_on":[]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Attributes

Configure an array of the `name` of each movement sensor you want to add to your robot as a merged resource in the attributes of the `merged` movement sensor model:

- The name of each attribute represents the `Property` that that particular movement sensor supports, or the type of reading or measurement that it takes.
- Get the properties supported by each model from its [model configuration documentation](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration), or by calling [`GetProperties()`](/components/movement-sensor/#getproperties) on the sensor.
- Use this information to determine which attribute to put its `name` inside the array of.
You can use the same sensor for multiple attributes if it supports multiple properties.

Name | Type | Inclusion | Description
---- | ---- | --------- | -----------

> `position` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads position. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`position` | array | **Dependent on whether Position is  Supported in  GetProperties** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads position. |
```
And similar

Reviewer 2: I believe the inclusions here should be sentence case

Author: So actually here I am working on putting together "sensor readings" docs pages that talk about what Position and Orientation readings look like (and the other types supported in Properties too) and essentially better instructions on how you should handle the data -- i was thinking of using the "Readings Type" term consistently there so I was gonna link once that's up haha, hard to explain. So might not want to change this because it will make more sense soon to docs users? 

I think that @randhid  suggested change is better right now technically but it does make the table look weird bc it's so long... what do y'all think

Reviewer: ah length of table is annoying, "Depends on sensor returning Position"? I'm not super picky

Reviewer 2: I agree the longer ones are too big for the table. I think leave as is for now but sentence case like
```suggestion
`position` | array | **Dependent on readings type supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads position. |
```

`orientation` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads orientation. |
`compass_heading` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads compass heading position. |
`linear_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear velocity. |
`angular_velocity` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads angular velocity. |
`linear_acceleration` | array | **Dependent on Readings Type Supported** | The `name` of the movement sensor you want to merge, if it reads linear acceleration |

> Note that only one sensor from each array can be used to retrieve each type of reading.

Reviewer 2: [opt] Could make this into an "Important" or "Tip" alert if you think it could be easily missed.

Author: I considered this as well but Rand didn't think it should be tip and I think it's slightly intuitive so probably ok

> The first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model and does not raise an error at runtime is used by your robot to get that type of reading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your robot uses the first sensor in the array that has implemented the relevant API method in its model and does not raise an error at runtime.
```

Author: smart done

> For instance, in the **JSON Example** above, if both `"vectornav"` and `"mpu6050"` support returning `angular_velocity`, `"mpu6050"` is only used to read linear acceleration on the robot if `"vectornav"` returns an error at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, in the **JSON Example** above, if both `"vectornav"` and `"mpu6050"` support returning `angular_velocity`, `"mpu6050"` is only used to read angular velocity on the robot if `"vectornav"` returns an error at runtime.
```

Author: done... 
Idk why my brain wants to switcheroo, thanks greatly for catching

---
title: "Configure a merged movement sensor"
linkTitle: "merged"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
description: "Configure a merged movement sensor."
images: ["/icons/components/imu.svg"]
# SMEs: Rand
---

The `merged` movement sensor model is an abstraction that combines data from multiple movement sensors.

This allows you to aggregate the API methods supported by multiple sensors into a singular sensor client, effectively merging the models of the individual resources.

In other words, the models of the `merged` sensors are combined, making the movement sensor API methods each aggregated model supports available on the `merged` model.

This is especially useful if you want to get readings of position and orientation *or* linear and angular velocity at the same time, which are normally separately supported and returned by [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) or [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) models, respectively.

{{% alert title="Usage Tip: Navigation Service" color="tip" %}}

> Aggregating `Position()` from a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and `Orientation()` from an [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model allows you to reduce velocity error when your robot is trying to [navigate](/services/navigation/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reduce velocity error when your robot is using the [navigation service](/services/navigation/), aggregate `Position()` from a [`GPS`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) and `Orientation()` from an [`IMU`](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) movement sensor in a `merged` model.
```
[opt] Generally I like saying "why" before "how," and this rewrite makes the end of this sentence less redundant with the following sentence, but I can see the argument for leaving this as-is so up to you.
